My guest today is Shyam Sankar, the CTO
of Palantir Technologies. I think you'll
find by listening to Shyam that the
business itself, their mission and how
they built it, and indeed him in his
life, are completely fascinating. We
talk about his entire worldview, which I
find personally the most interesting.
This need to re-industrialize the United
States after decades of moving so much
of our production, and as he would argue
therefore our learning of how to
innovate and make things, off of our own
shores. We talk about the history of
heretics, people who have against the
odds designed solutions that have driven
so much of our success around the world.
Please enjoy my conversation with Shyam
Sankar.
So, Shyam, I think the most fun place
for me to begin because it's an it's an
area that you're interested in that I'm
fascinated by is a history of people in
American military lore who you call
heretics. You refer to them as heretics,
people like Hyman Rickover and Andrew
Higgins who designed 90% of the boats
that landed at Normandy, John Boyd who
invented the OODA Loop, which is one of
the great biographies of a of a military
figure that I've ever read.
Talk to us a little bit about how you
would define a heretic
um in your use of that term and why
you're so interested in that group of
people in US history.
>> Well, I think they're really founders.
You know, they they're founder figures
uh and they get obsessed with delivering
something that it makes no sense because
they're fighting in particular in the
military context you're like fighting
the bureaucracy, you're going to end
your career, you pay extreme prices for
it. So, there's almost like a
pathological obsession with winning,
which I really relate to both
personally, but also that's what I see
in great founders. I think
in the present moment
it's really important to like encourage
the that the hidden heretics who are in
there in the military today to recognize
like your heresy matters, and frankly if
you look back at history, the only [__]
that ever worked, the things that helped
us win all the wars, were the things
that the heretics actually did. Nothing
that went through the machine
delivered anything. I think all change
comes from these these heretics, and
they only later become heroes. If you
think about like Billy Mitchell who
invented the Air Force, you know, he was
court-martialed and died penniless and
depressed, and only after his death did
we invent the Air Force based on his
original heresy. I'm just fascinated
with what motivates these folks to keep
doing this. And I I guess I have relish
a little bit in in their rebellion and
the victory that the rebellion brings
about.
>> If you could have people study any one
heretic story to understand this kind of
general idea, is it his story? Is it
someone else's? Which one would you
pick?
>> I'd probably pick Rickover's. So, Hyman
Rickover,
born in a shado in Poland, came to the
US when he was six, had one of these
like near miss moments where in those
days when you landed at Ellis Island,
you had 10 days for someone to come pick
you up. And his his mother gave someone
money to go send a telegram to the
father who'd already been here, and that
guy just pocketed the money. And so,
it's like the on the on the 10th day,
there was another guy who arrived at
Ellis Island who said who like bought
them one more day, who knew them. And
then he like ran out, got the father,
got them So, it's like this near miss
where this guy almost didn't even end up
here. He would have been sent back to
Poland.
Um but he was he was kind of this feisty
character. You know, he I think he was
like 5'2, very short. He went to the
Naval Academy. He was so unlikable that
like in the yearbook in the Naval
Academy, they'd like torn out his
picture. You know, he's just one of
these like difficult people. In World
War he drove a coal ship. He was not
like some exceptionally high-performing
senior you know, senior military officer
commanding a destroyer or carrier or
anything like that. But after the war,
he went to Oak Ridge. And and he
observed the the vestiges of the
Manhattan Project, and he had this idea
like we could build nuclear-powered
submarines. And he'd had this experience
on diesel-powered submarines,
which suck. They're basically surface
ships that happen to go underwater for
like an hour. This became this thing he
was obsessed with. And talk about talk
about chutzpah, like Oppenheimer himself
thought this idea was going to fail. You
know, so you have Oppie telling you
you're stupid and this isn't going to
work and you're just going to go
forward, right? Uh so he started on this
project and he he built the first
nuclear submarine in 7 years, start to
finish.
The Navy hated him so much that his
first office for this project was
literally the women's restroom.
They're like, "What can we do to
humiliate this guy into quitting?"
Uh but he just kept going. And if you
actually look at his personal memoirs,
you can see that the humiliation got to
him, but in a way that he could channel
it to be like motivating. It wasn't like
he was somehow immune to the pain of it
all, but he could push through it. And I
think recognizing like every major
project you do is going to push you in
these sorts of ways and like how do you
dig deep? How do you grind through the
pain?
Um and he created really unique culture
in naval reactors, which is alive today.
So I think part of what's really cool
is that our nuclear submarine force is
one of our last remaining asymmetric
advantages against the Chinese and we
built it in the '50s.
What a legacy for this guy to have
built. And then the engineering culture
that he created, um you know, he was in
this unique role of both being a human
who would invent the technology and
therefore was qualified to think about
how to regulate it. So whereas the the
Russian submariners,
they would send they would spend roughly
6 months at sea and then 6 months in
Sochi recovering so their white blood
cells could regenerate because the
radiation shielding sucked.
We've had no deaths due to nuclear
incidents in our submarine force and he
designed it to a standard which is
really he's like, "I'm designing this
thing so my son could be in it." And
it's it's a hundred times safer than
what we believe the minimum standard to
be. And that that sort of obsession,
it's like a you know, it's not a
manager's view of the world. It is a
founder's view of the world. One of his
legacies, like he was an admiral for 30
years. And even as an admiral, he was
very
difficult. You know, Zumwalt, who was
the chief of naval operations for a
while, he said, "The Navy has three
enemies, the Soviet Union, the Air
Force, and Hyman Rickover."
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back using
AI to automate 85% of expense reviews
with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, it's no wonder that
Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs on
Ramp, and my business does, too. To see
what happens when you eliminate the busy
work, check out ramp.com/invest.
Every investor should know about Rogo
because Rogo AI's platform is not just
another generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how Wall Street
bankers and investors actually work,
from sourcing, diligence, and modeling
to turning analysis into deliverables.
For me, three key things differentiate
Rogo. First, it connects directly to
your systems so it can work with your
actual data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end-to-end and produces
real outputs the way the best people do.
Auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that Rogo is
built by finance professionals for
finance professionals. And it's already
being adopted by some of the most
demanding institutions in the world. To
learn more, visit rogo.ai/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core capabilities
like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs.
That's where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. I remember reading the book
about John Boyd who three times he was
sort of the best fighter pilot then he
helped develop the F-16 and then he came
up with like the military strategy
concept that was instrumental in in
in some of the US wars in the 90s and he
was sort of a bastard as well like
highly disliked really bad father highly
disagreeable but incredibly important in
in US military history.
You don't seem to have that kind of
personality like you seem you seem very
like by all accounts like very likable
within Palantir and outside of Palantir.
Say a bit about your own
disagreeableness like where does it
surface? It seems like this is a field
in which you have to have a very clear
view of how things should be which we'll
talk a lot about in a few minutes
and then this sort of like
disagreeableness and resilience and
persistence to like make it happen. And
that seems a little bit at odds with
with your personality from what I can
tell curious how you how you think about
that.
>> It surfaces in certain ways. You know as
as Karp would say I'm not everyone's cup
of tea. Where you can very clearly see
it is like in the early days of Palantir
you would you'd be dealing with the
government and it's easy to think about
it as a monolith but you have you know
you have operators who want to use your
software but are not in charge of buying
it and you have the IT people or the
program who's in charge of building what
you would be building. So you're you're
kind of a structural threat to them.
The advice is to go along and get along
like hey those guys are the people
paying you. Why don't you just do what
they want? The problem is if I did what
they want it wouldn't work and so that's
where the disagreeableness comes in.
It's being ornery about like no I'm
going to deliver the thing that actually
works for the operator. I'm going to
piss off literally everyone along the
way. They are knives out going to try to
kill you. You know we had to sue the
army to compete at some point and I
think in that that vein of being truly
committed to is the product excellent.
What else could it be doing? You could
think of it the whole Udalupa for
deployed engineering is that is this
continuously solving through back
propagation of what should the product
be and that's like that's like the motor
of of innovation.
>> If I think about Palantir story and
success and and you're part of that
story, your personal worldview seems
really important and you having a
strongly held worldview seems like
a key component of being able to do what
you've done over the last, you know, 10
plus years. I would love to hear the the
formative experiences that contributed
to that worldview. I'm curious just like
at a high level what your worldview is
and but but I'm maybe even more
interested in like how you came to it
because you've got a very unique
personal backstory.
>> I think there's no kind of singular
event. I think it's like there's a
combination of family history, the
environment that I grew up in
and and so, you know, starting with the
family history part, you know, we fled
violence in Nigeria where
my father we frankly almost died
to kind of settle in the US and that
happened pretty young in my father's
life in his in his like early mid 30s.
It's a pretty jarring experience where
it kind of gives you a whole new lease
on life after that point where you think
about
you have you have a deep amount of
gratitude and perspective on the trials
and tribulations that may come ahead.
But it also grounds you in a profound
understanding of the counterfactual,
like what makes this country so special.
Sometimes it can be unmooring not to
have those experiences actually because
it's easy to take it for granted, it's
easy to become cynical.
Um but that that's like a a really
powerful rooting and pretty because my
father didn't have the classic immigrant
story where he came here and became
successful which I think is is a great
thing if it happens to you, but it's
also a facile journey. It's easy to
appreciate. Dad started businesses that
went bankrupt. It was very hard, but
having that rooting experience that
created a graciousness and perspective
in him. He was always so thankful for
the opportunity. And so I I took a a
away from that over time especially as I
grew up and could kind of understand and
have awareness of what was happening.
The second thing I think is really
important is growing up in Orlando
in the '80s and '90s. It was this
profoundly optimistic period. I mean,
you could say it was probably pretty
optimistic everywhere, but in the shadow
of the Space Coast, you were you were
kind of bombarded with this idea that
technology was going to make the world
better, that there was a structural
positive-sum view of everything. Um
and it just it was so motivating, you
know, and people had ambition around
these things. Uh and so I think that
that really kind of set a frame for me
for how I thought about things and how
did I want to spend my life and energy.
I think that's really it. It's it's this
commitment to building. Part of what's
interesting about the heretics that
I'm drawn to is that they're all
builders of some sort.
The conversion from heresy to heroism is
a is a result of an empirical thing they
built. You know, like John Boyd was
alive to see the success of his
innovations for Gulf War I,
where the US destroyed the fourth
largest army in the world. And that it's
it's hard to think about now cuz we
think about it as almost a foregone
conclusion, but leading up to it, there
was a lot of uncertainty. So, that that
worldview is kind of centered in an
understanding like, "Look, I think the
US is the greatest force of good that
exists in the world." Um that um
as a country, we understand that there's
something special about founders.
There's a reason we call them the
founding fathers. You know, if you think
about just empirically, Europe has
created zero zero companies worth more
than a hundred billion euro from scratch
in the last 50 years. Almost almost an
astonishingly bad track record. We've
created all of our trillion-dollar
companies from scratch in the last 50
years.
The primacy of people and being in a
culture and environment that allows that
to happen, that doesn't subjugate the
human, doesn't like snuff out human
flourishing, that allows you to pursue
these things.
That may not seem trivial, but the
heretics are all a version of that. And
it's not like Pollyannaish where there's
no resistance to these creatives. It's
like despite the resistance,
you can succeed here, which is really
not true, I think basically anywhere
else.
>> Hm. What was your dad like, personally?
>> The kind of
pieces of his personality that I said
always stuck with me, it's like every
spare moment this man had, even though
he was so busy and he was just grinding,
he would be on the phone trying to help
someone. I had this weird memory of
someone who
almost my dad had this sort of
engineering autism that I think a lot of
us have, but he met someone who had
totally disfigured teeth. And he just
had the
actually profound kindness to tell him
like, you should get a cosmetic surgery.
And that guy is so profoundly thankful
that no one else had the balls to say
that, right? Like, this actually changed
his job prospects. It changed his life.
And so he's he's just one of these
people you clearly can see the positive
sumness in him, like, hey, I'm just
going to keep paying it forward.
>> If you had to identify the component
parts that make America the thing that
you think is the greatest country in the
world, what are the key components?
Obviously, maybe democracy is one, but I
don't want to take for granted like the
things, given your life experience and
your unique perspective, that you think
most add up to this being a place worth
your life's work to, you know, extend
their interests, protect their
interests, etc.
>> A belief in exceptionalism and
greatness. No army that lost its morale
ever won the war. And so believing in
yourself, believing that greatness is
possible, is a precondition to being
able to express it and realize it. And a
lot of cultures don't have that.
The other thing, which I know sounds
really simple, but is is a complete
plasticity of thought. You know,
culturally America is a place where
people do change their minds. Like, hey,
this isn't working, let's do something
different. Or I observe that thing
working, even though it goes against the
orthodoxy of everything I've learned,
we're moving, we're pivoting. In Europe,
people are still arguing about [__] that
happened 300 years ago. And some of
these cultures are so rooted in the past
that they can't update their priors. And
so a culture that's capable of learning,
you could call it plasticity, first
derivative of learning,
um but how can you make progress without
that?
>> What what does greatness mean to you
in general and also I'm curious how you
think about it personally. Like if you
are personally in pursuit of greatness,
what has that meant?
What does that require?
>> An aspiration that's substantially
bigger than oneself. The focus of
American greatness is on American
prosperity and American worker. Like how
can we go do things that are actually
enriching our civilization, our people,
raising their own aspirations,
inspiring them to go on and do great
things. There's this unstable
equilibrium in civilization
that pulls you towards nihilism.
Uh, and greatness is the antidote to
that. It's the it's the countervailing
force to saying like no, like actually
it's worth investing in our
institutions. It's worth
going through this painful journey
because what we're going to get on the
other end is something better, something
that we all aspire for, something that
that you will be proud to pass down to
your children.
>> Is there an example of greatness that
you've witnessed in someone else first
hand?
That most stands out?
>> Well, the obvious one to me is um is is
Alex Karp. You know, I think his ability
to really
manage and unlock talent is something
like I've never seen before. And those
are some of the most profound lessons
I've really learned about Palantir, you
know, from the very early days he
modeled our entire company as an artist
colony. And um, it's it's like we have
more in common with like a Hollywood
talent agency
than we do with kind of a a typical
software company in terms of our
approach to to looking at humans. And
this like first principled approach to
the individual and how do you grow? This
deep resistance to a cargo cult like
process in every
manner or fashion that kind of corrodes
all the things that actually create
value. And I think that's important cuz
if you drive that to the extreme, you
actually get something that looks more
like the Soviet Union. And on the other
end of this, how do you maximize the
potential of the people in front of you.
And you're advocating for their growth
and their ability.
Um which also involves a lot of um you
have to have a structural personality
where you're not threatened by other
people's successes. You actually relish
in the other people's successes and
that's the parallel between Alex and my
father.
>> If I was running an organization where
my key goal was to unlock talent in in
the way you just described, how does he
how do you and he do that? Like what how
what's the practice of unlocking talent?
>> Maybe we could just start with the
precept of like how how we think about
the talent to begin with. So
really talented people are highly
uneven. Uh you know, they're very good
at some things. They're okay at another
set of things and they're really bad at
some other set of things. And and
usually the trick is where are they in
their own journey of understanding what
those things are. And particularly for
high high-achieving people
when they're young
they misattribute what their superpower
is. They think there's this thing they
do that requires a fair amount of effort
and therefore they get a dopamine hit
when they succeed. It's probably
something they're not even bad at.
They're just okay at.
Superpowers are effortless and therefore
they're in some sense it's almost like
not even rewarding to exercise your
superpower. My analogy for this is it
Superman could fly, he could see through
walls, but that wasn't some sort of
arduous thing for him to do. It's just
something he could do. And that's
usually something you learn
comparatively. Like you're like, oh this
thing that's like lizard brain
effortless almost thoughtless for me
other people who are really smart can't
seem to do or I do just way better.
And embracing that is the first step.
And then helping them understand like,
hey all of your contributions to the
world are going to come from your
superpower. Like everything else is
basically a waste of time. So how do you
figure out how to get into that
configuration? So there's a there's some
releasing of ego around that as well as
understanding
that okay, like this is what I need to
focus on.
The other part of this is kryptonite.
You know, there are some set of
weaknesses you have that aren't just
like, hey I'm not like I'm kind of
average or I'm maybe a standard D below
average." It's like you're like six D's
below average here. It's not like
something you can work on. The only
strategy for Superman around kryptonite
was to avoid it. Yeah. And so, how can
you Can you be okay with that? Like as
the as the artist, what is your process
of accepting that and how do we help you
accept it? How do we How How do we help
you understand that actually at the
point of acceptance you become more
valuable?
And um and we're going to be able to
unleash you further to be able to do
things.
>> And then you have to create an
environment that supports them through
that because the discovery of kryptonite
usually involves you being exposed to
it. You're going to make some sort of
really bad mistake that probably will
have real consequences. Hopefully you
learn from that mistake.
Um and you know, it may take more than
one time to get there. But you don't
want to be You don't want to create a
culture which is like, "You [__] this
up. I got to fire you." Right? It's
like, "Oh, I'm so I'm so glad you
learned that this is not what you do for
the company."
>> Yeah, exactly.
And And that I think was
I I remember doing something that I
really screwed up once that had
consequences for the company and I
sheepishly
went and did Alex and was just
completely honest and I didn't I didn't
realize at the time there was no grand
strategy behind this other than my
commitment to just always being honest.
He was very appreciative. He was also in
pain as he internalized what this was
going to mean. But you know, he valued
the fact that I wouldn't try to hide it.
And I took away from that how important
that environment was going to be and how
do I How do I scale that through the
organization?
>> What do you think your superpower is?
>> I think there's actually kind of a
narrow sliver.
If you thought about it in the Palantir
context, the intersection of forward
deployed engineering and product.
There's There's an There's a There's
like an interface there. It's like 1 in
on both sides of that interface, like
owning that almost as a dictator, that's
my superpower.
>> I'm going to come back to forward
deployed engineering, but I want to ask
one or two more questions about the
creation of an environment for the
discovery of superpower and kryptonite
and like so doing doing one's best work
and unlocking the talent.
I heard a story once which maybe I
wasn't supposed to hear. So I won't I
won't say what the exact story was or
who the person was at Palantir, but this
person joined Palantir and was very
quickly given an extraordinarily
difficult project uh around which this
person had no relevant experience and
was given relatively limited resources
to solve a problem which was truly
global in scale. Meaning the impact of
if this person didn't solve the problem
would have been bad. And
they described it as the most formative
and and important professional and most
stressful professional experience that
they had had. And on the one hand, I
loved hearing this story cuz wow, how
you can learn so much when there's high
stakes and lots of autonomy. But it also
struck me as quite scary that someone
with this person's experience was given
this
uh
this high-stakes opportunity
responsibility.
And I'm sure that happens like all the
time in Palantir. So some of it seems
like letting like kind of going straight
into the deep end is a key part of this.
In such a high-stakes business with
militaries and governments and people's
lives and things, how how do you balance
how much leash to give someone like
that?
>> Let me start with um an analogy. How did
Bruce Banner become the Incredible Hulk?
It wasn't like progressive overload.
It's not like he lifted a little bit
more weight every week, right? It was a
near-fatal dose of gamma rays. 50%
chance he died, 50% chance he turns into
a big green monster.
And there's a there's absolutely an
element where we're taking people and
just irradiating them. Prospectively,
you're not sure if they're going to come
out the other end, but you have some
belief that they have the raw talent and
potential. And then you want to create
an environment that
has enough transparency and flow of
information and exhaust that if you see
that this thing is really going off the
rails with without them having to seek
you out, you're able to kind of push in
and help them. And a lot of environments
don't have that by default, actually.
Like you would have to like manage them.
You have them do reports or check-ins or
whatever. You got to create an
environment where it's okay to ask for
help. The reason this model is really
valuable is that I think the alternative
model, you judge by the counterfactual,
the alternative model doesn't actually
work. So this sort of structured career
ladder with progressions, it's perfectly
designed to make you feel comfortable
that you are growing. Like it gives you
some belief that there's a linear path
to follow and you'll learn these things.
But actually it's all fake. Um
on the other hand, so if you're willing
to just suspend disbelief, throw
yourself off the deep end, how do you
get, you know, you you're the maximal
rate of learning will be coincident with
your maximum ability to tolerate pain.
Uh so now you're in over your head,
you're working on a problem you don't
even know. This is the environment that
you're going to learn at the fastest
possible rate. You're only limited by
your motivation and ability to endure
through the discomfort of getting there.
Uh
then you will find that if you look back
retrospectively, you're like, "Holy
[__] I grew in all these ways. I
learned all these things." None of which
you could have predicted specifically ex
ante. And then if you just are willing
to do that serially, just keep jumping
off the deep end, go after problems
you're frankly not qualified to go
after, but you you know, there is some
belief you have the raw potential to do,
like you turn into a superhero. I think
that's actually why Palantir is the
Founder's Factory.
>> Did you have your own gamma ray moment?
Like was there an an original moment
like that for you where you discovered
your own potential?
>> The article talks about the the
deployment at the Co-Op. I think that
was that was a seminal one where it was
it was I was leading the deployment. It
was all on me and it was never obvious
until basically the last second whether
it was going to work or not. And it it
it allowed me to learn a lot of the
lessons along the way, which is really
where I internalized that like
oh, success looks like a lot of pain.
And that that instinct to figure out how
to reduce the pain, like how do I do
this the next time with less pain is
exactly the wrong instinct.
>> If you're giving a commencement speech
to a group of people that that hear
heard this conversation, how would you
urge people to seek that out? Like if
someone is pre-gamma exposure
and they're interested in that sort of
test for themselves, how can people
expose themselves to
to that test?
>> I think this is the conspiracy of of the
people around you who give you that
chance. I don't know why Kevin Hart's
hired me as some, you know, Stanford
grad student coming to talk to him, but
the fact that he took the bet and just
threw me out there.
Like that was the first time I got to
jump off the deep end in many ways. And
I think so I I really think that how can
you find it? You're you're assessing the
people who are hiring you as much as
they're assessing you. And it's like, is
this an environment that I think is
going to bet on me or is this an
environment that wants me to be a veal
cow? You know, and are they going to be
able to tolerate my eccentricities and
and
um or they're going to try to squash
that?
>> How do you know someone's worth betting
on? Like the other side of that
equation.
New unproven talent. How do you know?
>> Yeah.
>> At some point it becomes like lizard
brain. You get enough reps in doing it,
but I think early on I think the early
indicators would be like first
derivative, proof of some sort of sui
generis, like did they create anything
from zero to one that you know, and then
expression of agency and initiative.
Here's the simplest way I'd say it.
If I give this person an inch, can they
turn it into a mile?
And the worst sort of bet to make is I
gave this person a mile and somehow they
turned it into an inch.
>> It's an incredibly powerful idea and it
seems like the culture Palantir, I mean
obviously there's tons of founders that
have come out of this that have like
mega agency. If you think about
Palantir's future for the next 10 years,
now 20 years in or 19 years in,
what do you hope changes most in the
next 10? Like obviously it's now a huge
company, it's one of the bigger, you
know, bigger companies by market cap in
the country and in the world,
uh doing lots of really interesting work
with lots of interesting customers, but
generally speaking like what what are
your hopes for it over the next 5 to 10
years?
>> I think culturally, cuz like all value
creation is downstream of the culture.
It's like continuing to be an
environment where
a new person can come in and just have
huge responsibility, be in charge of
people who've been here 10 years or not.
It's like that that the that the org
structure I call it a quantum org
structure. I don't think a flat org
structure is optimal. I think that that
doesn't actually work. I think what you
want is an org structure that can
crystallize is the right structure to
solve the problem as it exists today and
is able to reform as the problem
manipulates tomorrow. And you can kind
of see that that the pathology of big
companies as they go through some sort
of big reorg every 5 years. But even if
you just steel man it, probably most of
them are wrong even at inception, but if
you just steel man and say hey, they
just reorg. This is the right org
structure for this company today. Every
day the entropy is against them and
every day is slightly more wrong than it
was before. And if if you're so ossified
and committed to your structure that you
have to wait until it's totally broken
before you reorganize it again, that's a
fundamental weakness. So, that
plasticity in how your your commitment
to working backwards from the problems,
that's that I hope that's that is how we
generate value and that has to be
consistent. And I think if we can
protect that
and then engender that, you know,
promote that, promulgate that culture in
the future generations, like
we're going to keep winning.
>> What critique of Palantir do you take
the most seriously?
>> So, when when you have a structure like
this, you don't get to spend nearly as
much time with people as you'd want. And
so,
the rate of inradiation is very
uh
heterogeneous. There's some sort of like
bimodal distribution for how long do
people stay at Palantir. Like the
probability that you'll stay for like a
decade plus if you've stayed 3 years is
incredibly high. But, you know, roughly
around the 3-year mark, everyone faces
this crucible where they look around and
they say like this place is so [__] up
and crazy and and they have to
understand like oh, but that's the
feature of it."
And then they'll stay.
>> Sign up for it or not, right?
>> Or they'll say this is the bug of it and
I got to get out of here and like this
is this is not, you know, it's not going
to work. Um
and
the the critique I take most seriously
because I think with a little bit of
help a lot more people can make that
hump. And that's the future of the
business. It's to those people.
>> We kind of have you to blame for how
many freaking pitches we have to take
that involve some forward deployed
something or other in a company these
days. You were the one that really
pioneered the success of this model at
Palantir. Like everyone is saying it now
that every company has to have forward
deployed engineers or forward deployed
so-and-sos to be successful. Obviously,
I think that's not true for every
company. It's true in in Palantir's case
for sure. Can you tell us the story of
what this term means, where it came
from, and and why it's powerful?
>> We could start by maybe thinking about
my critique of the conventional software
industrial complex, which is that
you know, you're sitting
let's just say in Palo Alto and you're
building this piece of software and your
essential feedback loop on is this
software valuable is
can I sell it? And if someone's willing
to pay for it, it must be valuable.
That's an okay feedback loop. There's a
stronger feedback loop, which is
is this software valuable? Did it
deliver the outcome?
The only way you can assess that is
actually in the field with the end user,
on the factory floor, in the foxhole.
So, in our case, it wasn't going to be
enough as I you know, I thought you have
this weird division between the IT buyer
and the operator. The validation is
going to come from the operator.
So, the the idea was really almost like
build software through back propagation.
Hey, how do you go to the person who has
the problem?
You're showing up with your best thesis
of what you've built in the metaphorical
Palo Alto.
But then you are not just sending a
sales engineer out there whose job is to
try to like ring up the sale. You're
sending someone out there who is
obsessed with whether it's going to
generate an impact in the world or not
and is willing to continuously solve
backward, and this tech lead will have
to understand the full stack. How would
we take the specific and learn how to
generalize it over time in terms of the
product? Uh one way of thinking about
this is there really are two types of
engineers. There are people who know
how to build the right thing, and there
are people who know how to build it the
right way.
And uh their kind of dopamine hits comes
out of different things, right? Like the
people who know how to build the right
thing, they're more like MacGyver. You
know, like their high in life is like I
solved the problem. In their minds,
solving the right problem
is 80% of the work.
On the other end, you have engineers who
are more like they're like they're like
artists in the traditional sense. Like,
don't you see how beautiful the thing I
built is? And that's what the
architectural elegance, the scalability
of it, that's what gives them the high.
Never mind it doesn't solve a problem
anyone cares about. Don't you you know,
it's art on its own. It should be
appreciated. And I think about this like
vector math. So, the forward deployed
engineers skew towards this hacker
mentality.
The product engineers skew towards this
artist mentality.
And you're trying you have an unstable
equilibrium where you're trying to align
these vectors in a way that you're going
to go up upwind. If either side
dominates, you don't really have a
business. And that's why that that seam
between them, you actually kind of need
a dictator-like figure to manage and
decide. And many of the outcomes, like
particularly I think this model is super
valuable
when you think about your customers
existing in some sort of power law in
terms of
how useful the next marginal thing
they're going to be asking for is in
terms of the overall development of the
product. So, cuz if it's a Gaussian, you
should just like survey all your
customers and average it out and figure
out what to build. That's like a
traditional product development process.
If on the other hand, you kind of think,
you know, some percentage of my
customers are living in the future. Yes,
only they or only a handful of people
have this problem today, but
I can assess that this is actually a
really valuable thing to solve that no
one else has solved.
We should solve it now and effectively
have a monopoly on the capability to do
that. We'll be 5 years ahead of everyone
else if we lean into this problem.
You can only surface that in this sort
of forward deployed engineering way. The
other thing about forward deployed
engineers that's worth saying in the
Tealian sense is is the importance of
secrets. You know, Peter talks about the
importance of secrets. If you're going
to do something
really impactful, there has to be
something true about the world that you
believe that other people disagree with
you on. Warp Speed is born out of one of
those secrets. For the better part of 15
years,
our software's been used to make things
in the world.
The one thing you could not tell anyone
before COVID
is that their manufacturing software
doesn't work. Like, people would point
at their ERP system and be like, "Look
how great it is. I spent $5 billion, $10
billion doing it." But,
as a forward deployed engineer, when I
would go to the final assembly line on
the factory floor, everyone's using
Excel. So, if you're thing is like there
there's a contradiction here that no one
is somehow forced to reconcile with,
which is really what they're saying is
the software is so ill-fit for what I'm
trying to do, I hit the eject button,
and pull the data out to Excel, and I'm
like hand-rolling my own solution. That
should be an obvious sign that
something's not working.
>> What are the limitations of it in the
sense of like if you have X, Y, or Z,
you shouldn't try this model, or you
need this to try this model? One one
thought would be the product needs to be
expensive cuz it sounds like an
expensive process to deploy people on
site, you know, highly trained,
expensive people, and so on. So, you
need to be selling a very expensive
product. But, if you were giving advice
about use or don't use this concept of
forward deployed engineering in your
software business, how would you frame
it up to other entrepreneurs?
>> I would say this, you have to believe
that you're going to be able to capture
meaningful value for the problems you're
solving. So, your the problems you're
solving are really big, and
therefore imply there's a lot of value
behind them.
And if you can solve them in in a deep
way, you'll be able to capture that. A
lot of the problems we're solving, like
to get at that, you're not going to get
paid a lot up front. You're actually
going to invest a huge amount into the
customer to go do that, but you would do
that because you believe that actually
in the end we'll be able to capture the
value, a portion of the value we're
creating. Our economics will be
downstream of our customers' economics.
The other part
is that your ambition extends beyond a
linear box. You know, like we always
struggled when we came into the
commercial world where you had like the
Gartners of the world and they have
like, "Well, you know, this is this sort
of box like this is my enterprise
architecture. I've broken up in all
these boxes. What box do you fit in?"
The answer for us is like, "Well, we
don't fit in any box. We fit in all the
boxes." It's It's some sort of heterodox
thing. You're solving for all the
problems in the seams. Like you're
basically solving for the fact that that
architecture diagram was made by some
mid-level product marketing manager.
It's never been used or validated in
Anchor. It's never actually solved a
problem in the real world, but the cargo
cult of the IT buyer just keeps
believing they should buy it. I think if
you fit into that,
doing forward deploying engineering
would be crazy. Why would you do that?
You know, but if you're like us and you
don't fit into it, you need some way of
like scraping and clawing to deliver
enough value that the institution has to
confront, but even though it's
heterodox, even though it's heresy to my
enterprise architecture,
it works.
>> It probably took until I read Jeremy's
profile of you and Palantir that I
really understood how Gotham and Foundry
and and the sort of product in the
business worked. It's interesting how
Palantir has this sort of is somewhat
inaccessible from the outside unless you
read a fairly detailed description of
what is literally going on in the
product. And I think the early years of
Palantir were especially exploratory
trying to figure all this out, you know,
with with with all your efforts with
Alex and the team. Could you just like
explain what Palantir is? It's like such
a basic stupid question, but again,
until I read like a detailed account, I
actually probably couldn't have done so.
And so, I'd really be curious how you
like to frame it or explain it.
>> This is actually like the hardest
question in the world for me. Um
we have built an enterprise operating
system
where our core thesis is what makes this
stuff really valuable
is decisions, not data.
And it's kind of goes to John Boyd's
OODA loop. What we're really providing
is an operating system that allows you
to bring all of your enterprise data
together. It could solves for the
impedance mismatch between like, yeah,
look, all this data I've collected, it
was collected and stored in a way that
makes sense to the underlying
transactional system or makes sense to
some part of my institution, but doesn't
actually represent how the humans of my
institution think about the problems
that we're facing. Uh so that we
represent in what we call the ontology,
which is not just a model of the data,
it's also a model of the actions. We
call that the kinetics. Like
if you're going to make a decision, you
might be allocating inventory. How do
you do that? So this ontology layer
almost becomes like an API layer for the
business. It makes the business
programmable.
And that changes the rate at which you
can compound on top of it. So now you
have this abstraction layer
that you can use to build applications
that manage your value chain from the
hand of your supplier to the hand of
your customer. You can call it a value
chain. You can also call that a decision
chain. There's a series of Your whole
business, almost, if you just squint at
it, is just a series of decisions you're
making.
Every one of those decisions you want to
have an OODA loop. Like I want to make
the best possible decision I can have
today. But I want more importantly, I
want the first derivative to be good. I
want to learn tomorrow how to make a
better decision than the one I had
today.
>> As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering band-aids and
patches, it's unfortunately far too easy
for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool designed to simplify and automate
your security work and deliver a single
source of truth for compliance and risk.
There's a reason that Ramp, Cursor, and
Snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them
to focus on building amazing
differentiated products, knowing that
compliance and security are under
control. Learn more at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset managers, and
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse, adding
more complexity, more head count, and
more risk. Ridgeline offers a better way
forward. One unified platform that
automates away all that complexity
across portfolio accounting,
reconciliation, reporting, trading,
compliance, and more. All at scale.
Ridgeline is revolutionizing investment
management, helping ambitious firms
scale faster, operate smarter, and stay
ahead of the curve. See what Ridgeline
can unlock for your firm. Schedule a
demo at ridgelineapps.com.
>> Could you give an example of a customer
where you showed up and maybe describe
the circumstance of their data or their
systems or something? Then what you did,
like what the process is of establishing
and building the ontology, which is I
think a like a very good appropriate but
fancy word for like mapping reality onto
a system versus jamming reality into a
pre-existing system.
>> Yeah.
>> And then what sort of transformation
that enabled at that customer that would
have been impossible with the former
system? Just to like bring it to life
with like a simple example.
>> things I just want to put down that will
make this make more sense. The first is
that we want to make software that makes
you more different, not more similar. We
think about it as alpha not beta. The
second thing is that we are a wildly
inductive company. You know, so we would
never show up to a customer with some
preconceived notion of this is the
aerospace ontology. I'm going to pick an
aerospace example in a second here. It's
It's rather like all the values and
understanding what makes your aerospace
company different than all the others.
How do I make you more different there?
That's the differentiation you're
competing on.
So when we when we first came to Airbus,
Airbus was in the midst of ramping the
A350. You know, the A380 was a wonderful
plane, structurally unprofitable
program. You know, so the A350 was this
bet that the whole company was
effectively riding on in 2015.
The first time you make an airplane,
um you're always going to have issues.
The There's a learning curve to the
production. And one of the most
important things to figure out as
quickly as possible is what is what is
an issue
that is just a non-conformity that like,
hey, I'll give this guy some training
and he'll learn how to figure it out.
It's teething pain, it'll go away. And
what is a recurring issue that is
actually a design defect that I need to
go work with my suppliers or upstream.
How quickly you can solve that becomes
fundamental to the shape of the ramp and
the cost of the ramp.
So the first thing we did is we just
started
sitting with users on the final assembly
line in Toulouse.
These are These are wrench turners
effectively. And understanding hey, what
makes your life suck? What's hard about
this? What's What's the challenge in
working on these non-conformities? And
you look at like basically they're going
through Excel. They're looking at
reports in SAP trying to figure out how
do I bucket all these issues that are
coming in? So we just help them automate
all of that. And the ontology at that
point was really related to parts,
sequencing of work, uh
defect rates, like everything related to
quality.
Once you had this immense quality asset
though, you're able actually to pivot it
to realize okay, so like now I'm not Now
I'm up the learning curve. It kind of
naturally leads to the next problem,
which is production planning. So quality
to production planning to then in
service. Now you have the greatest data
asset possible for this tail.
As this plane enters service, how do I
help maximize the uptime of this asset
for my customers? How am I going to
compete against the other aerospace
manufacturers? That's the natural
evolution that we see with most
customers. You start with one problem,
but of course they exist in the context
of this connected decision chain.
>> What's the difference between dealing
with military customers and government
customers, which you did for a long
time, and commercial customers?
>> There's a lot more non-market forces in
the military. The military is the only
institution in the world that kind of
profoundly divides up supply and demand.
You know, the beating heart of most
companies is that integration, that
sales and operation planning process.
Right, you have the combatant commands,
we call them, that deal with real world
events. If you're fighting Russia,
that's that's the European command,
EUCOM.
And then And have the services, like the
Army, Navy, Air Force, Space Force, etc.
Their job is to man, train, and equip.
That's the supply side. So, you you have
a group that has no responsibility for
demand,
essentially deciding what to build, how
how much to build, you know, how am I
going to man, train, and equip this? And
then they present these forces to the
combatant commands and say, "This is
what you have to solve this problem."
That adds an additional level of
complexity. So, if the demand side says,
"Hey, I really want this. This is the
capability we need." They
they can't buy it. So, how do you kind
of square this? So, I think you have all
these other non-market forces to deal
with. Um but, I think one of the things
that is really advantageous to being
both a commercial and
government-oriented company is that the
the the intrinsic rewards on the
government side are so high, so
motivating. It enables you to get
through and solve really hard problems
in a way that is kind of like a rising
tide for the whole business.
>> How would you define the state of our
military today? Like, I know it's a big
question, and but it's an important
question. You've gotten to see so many
sides of it and serve many aspects of
it.
Uh what Yeah, how would you describe the
state of the US military?
>> We are the best military in the world.
Our uniform service members are better
than we deserve. Like, I every day
Actually, I had someone tell me like,
"Hey, when are you going to stop stop
being shocked at how good, you know,
this E-4 is at building this app or
doing this thing?" And it's like, the
amount of talent is eye-watering.
I think we encumber them in a lot of
process. We deprive them of a lot of
agency, and I certainly have a lot of
critiques of of the bureaucracy. But, I
think the structural challenge we have
is actually something that we just need
to observe from a distance from the
military we have today, per se, which is
the whole point of the military is to
deter our adversaries from conflict. If
you look back over the last 10 years,
we've not been able to deter a lot of
conflict. We had the annexation of
Crimea in 2014,
the militarization of the Spratly
Islands after they told President Obama,
"We will not militarize it." They
militarized the Spratly Islands. We've
had a pogrom in Israel. We've had the
invasion of Ukraine.
We have unprecedented gray zone phase
zero operations by the Chinese in the
South South China Sea. I would say
arguably in the last year we've started
to restore deterrence.
Whatever you think about it, Midnight
Hammer was a massively deterring
operation. Maduro is massively
deterring. You You have it on multiple
levels with With Midnight Hammer, it's
obviously the overwhelming strength, the
precision of what we're able to do, the
incredible complexity of the operations.
No other military in the world could
have done that.
But we need to view that as like a
single strike, you know, and the
deterrence capability against a peer
adversary is can you generate that
strike every single day until the enemy
is submits to your will.
You think about Maduro, it also shows
our capability like
literally the raid happened the day the
Chinese were in town. Maduro has all
these Chinese and Russian weapons,
Venezuela,
and they don't seem to work at all. And
that sends a very strong message to
everyone who else who thinks that their
security is coming from buying Chinese
and Russian weapons.
Now, I think we could we kind of trace
back, and this is
what I really wrote about in the 18
thesis. So, if we start, we say we we've
lost deterrence. Like, let's Let's be
clear-eyed about that.
I think in the last year we've started
to regaining it.
What happened? Because we had it for a
long time, you know, and we were the
sole superpower in the '90s. How do And
we spend a fair amount every year on
defense. So, I think it'd be a
reasonable thing for the American people
to expect like that we
>> Slowing dollars right here.
>> Yeah.
I think there's something much more
profound. People want to talk about
narrow things like acquisition reform or
the mix of weapons. I think it comes
back to people. It comes back to the
heretics. So, when we, you know, at the
at the dawn of World War II, we were the
best at mass production. Effectively,
our country invented it. And in order to
create an industrial base, we took the
number two at GM, who was previously
number two at Ford, Bill Knudsen, who
was a Danish emigre,
who uh who's really the
perfecter of mass production, and we
direct commissioned him a three-star
general, and we put him in charge of war
mobilization. And and Knutsen was a
world-class engineer. And what do we do?
We gave him the authority to go meet
other world-class engineers all around
America. We had one key advantage
in World War in terms of timing, which
is that we had Lend-Lease. There was a
period of time that we actually
mobilized
production when we were not fighting. We
were building stuff that we gave to our
allies, to the Brits in particular,
and the Soviets. Uh but that allowed us
to build factories and retool existing
factories and hit a production ramp so
that after Pearl Harbor happened, we
were basically at full-rate production
and were able to to really go after
these things. And put this in context of
our adversary, the Germans, they were
actually better engineers than we were.
They just made a very small number of
very exquisite things.
Now, if you come to the present moment,
we sell like the Germans. We make a very
small number of truly exquisite,
eye-wateringly exquisite things, and our
adversary
is the world's best at mass production.
So, this should give us all a little bit
of of discomfort here.
Uh
the second part of this is is that the
nature of the industrial base. Like
today, we call it the defense industrial
base. I think it used to be the American
industrial base until
the fall of the Berlin Wall.
Only 6% of spending on major weapon
systems went to defense specialists,
i.e. companies that only did business
with the Defense Department. Most of
that spending, 94%, went to what I call
as dual-purpose companies. Look, a a
missile is single-use. There's no
dual-use missile. But the idea that
Chrysler
would build missiles and minivans meant
that all the R&D that they were doing on
production, material, equipment, machine
tooling could be leveraged and was
subsidizing our national security, that
we recognized that freedom and
prosperity were two sides of the same
coin. We're so far away from that world
today, right? Like General Mills, the
cereal company, used to build torpedoes
and inertial guidance systems. Kodak,
film company, also was a key a key
supplier to Corona, which was our first
spy satellite. But this is this is the
industrial base that won World War II,
won the early Cold War, and really
deterred our adversaries. And it's only
a consequence of becoming the sole
superpower
that everything changed. And it changed
in two ways. One, that that 6% number
today is 86%. So, 86% of major weapon
systems come from defense specialists
only.
Uh the other part of it is the nature of
the industrial base.
We think about it as Northrop Grumman.
It much more accurately, it was Jack
Northrop. It was Leroy Grumman. It was
William Lear. It was Henry Ford. It was
Henry Kaiser. You had founder figures.
They were their own sort of heretics.
They were their own like what we would
recognize in the Valley today.
That's where this talent was. It was in
the industrial companies
of America.
And we were betting on these people, not
just their institutions, to deliver this
sort of capability.
In 1993, there was a a very famous
dinner at the Pentagon called the Last
Supper.
And
you know, we we had won the Cold War. I
think in a democracy, it's very
reasonable for the people to say, "We
want to spend less on defense. So, what
exactly is our threat?" So, we slashed
the defense budget. And in this dinner,
the Secretary of Defense told uh a
subset, I think it was 15 of the 51
primes. We had 51 primes. Today, we have
five. He told them, "You're all not
going to survive. The budget's getting
cut. We give you permission to
consolidate. Maybe some of you should
exit the defense business altogether.
And know that some of you may go out of
business, and we're not going to save
you." And this just set off a merger
frenzy that led from the consolidation,
you know, from 51 down to five. Now,
most people look at this, and I think
they take away the wrong conclusion,
which is like, "Oh, this is when we lost
competition. When we had competition, it
was much more dynamic."
I think the much more profound
consequence This is the moment of
profound financialization and conformity
in the industrial base. You lost the
crazy people. You know, they went to
tech. They went to other parts of our
economy where there was enough kind of
positive sum energy and growth and it
wasn't just about dividends and buyback
ratios and financial engineering. It was
about real engineering. The world class
engineers, it's like why why should we
celebrate a Hyman Rickover or a Kelly
Johnson? You know, it's Kelly Johnson
was the founder of Skunk Works at
Lockheed. In his lifetime, he built 41
airplanes. That is insane. Many of which
we still fly today. You know, and he
built the U-2 in 13 months. Like the
timelines we're talking about are just
incredible. You can't look at that and
think anything other than this is an
artist. Like this guy this is like
divine what he's able to do.
And so much of what I think we've gotten
wrong is those things were messy and
chaotic and hard and frictionful. And
over time we've tried to install lots of
process to make these things less messy,
less chaotic. As a consequence though,
they end up not working.
You know, and um
we need a little more crazy back to get
these things to work.
>> How do we undo this? I'm reminded of the
Churchill quote, won't get it exactly
right, something like the US always does
the right thing after trying everything
else first. And and like a lot of what's
happened is that we have shipped the
capability to produce physical things
off our shores
because it to optimize for a variety of
things, but it's much cheaper and more
scalable and easier and we've become you
know, primarily a country with all the
market cap that's that rests on
technology and IP and extreme talent
that the the small number of exquisite
things, exquisite people, exquisite
researchers. Like we've done an amazing
job there. Um but we don't make much
here anymore. A lot of it happens in
China and overseas. How can we reverse
that? Like it seems it seems so
imbalanced as to and so daunting as to
seem impossible. Um
but of course I know you think it's
critical. So like what what what is even
the first step in being able to do this?
>> And what you said is exactly right. It
is daunting but critical. So, we have no
choice but to lean into that and start.
You know, the best time to start would
have been yesterday, the next best time
is today. Let me also give the case for
why it's critical because I think we're
screwed if we don't do this.
The biggest lie that we bought from
globalization is this concept of we will
do the innovation and they will do the
production. And what you have to
recognize that innovation is itself a
consequence of productivity. To put it
in terms that I think our audience here
would understand most directly, like
what motivated Google to write to do the
research behind the attention is all you
need paper in 2017?
If you ask them, they'll say it's like,
"Well, the team was working on an
incremental 3% improvement to Google
Translate." You cannot think of
something more banal leading to
something more revolutionary than that.
So, if you don't have the input stimulus
on improving production, you're actually
not going to be able to capture the
innovation. And that's literally what
we're seeing play out in the marketplace
today, which is like, "Okay, they went
from making a battery to making the
whole car." Um, they WuXi went from
being a cheap, you know, basically a
cheap pair of hands for pipetting
contract research in the pharma industry
to actually now 50% of all clinical
trials are drugs that are created in
China. You know, so you we have seeded
the innovation. It's not that It's not
that it was taken away from us. We just
seeded it because we had completely
incorrect precept. So, now we have to
re-attack that. Now,
we shouldn't do that We should do this,
you know, with some asymmetric
advantage. And I think I think we have a
couple of them. I don't think it's true
that we're not great at building things
in this country. Look at Elon and the
progeny of Elon. Like, we do know how to
manufacture things here. And we're going
to have to think about manufacturing
things in new and novel ways. In
addition, like it's not It doesn't all
have to be new. It's like Ford, General
Motors, these are world-class
manufacturers, too. Like, we have that
capability.
But, we also have new ways of thinking
about this with much deeper vertically
integrated production.
Uh, thinking about the production
process itself as something that's more
iterative and software-like that you're
going to keep upgrading, co-locating R&D
with production itself. So, I think
these sorts of tradecrafts are the
things that we can lean on. And probably
the the last piece I'd say is AI is
David's slingshot here. You know, we can
if we can give the American worker
superpowers. If you can make the
American worker 50 times more productive
than a worker anywhere else, you're
going to change the efficient frontier
of what can be made here. And I think as
a consequence, we should be
re-industrialization maximalist. Like
the free traders out there like to say
like maybe we can friend shore whatever.
I think that stuff can let us off the
hook too easily.
And it fails to solve the problem.
The other example I'll give you from
Patrick McGee's book Apple and China is
that great book, right? And you know,
people love to say something like well,
we don't have the machine tools
engineers in America. You could hardly
get two people in a room to talk about
it. You could fill a whole stadium in
China. But then you look like Apple has
spent the equivalent on an
inflation-adjusted basis in the last 5
years of two and a half Marshall Plans
building talent and capacity in China.
How about we try to spend one Marshall
Plan here? I think the problem is we're
not even trying in part because we're
daunted, in part because parts of our
economy don't recognize that actually
this isn't going to keep working. Like
we're you're going to lose everything,
not just something.
Uh and and and it's why I feel a need to
urgent call to action to say like we are
in an undeclared state of emergency. And
it's not just manufacturing the physical
things we think about. I even think
about this in terms of drugs. 80% of our
generic drugs
come from China in one way or another,
whether it's the APIs or the finished
product themselves.
That is a huge problem.
Uh today your child has an ear
infection, that's pretty trivial. You
think I'll have some generic antibiotics
and it'll go away. If you have great
power competition with China and you're
the will of the American people to fight
when they have to really contemplate
hey, my 5-year-old might die of an ear
infection. You know, so
we we need to take these things kind of
much more seriously and and further down
the supply chain. I mean, I'm glad we're
starting with rare earths, but there you
could say we had to get punched in the
face to mobilize around it. Maybe one of
the galling things we should all think
about is we we've been staring at this
rare earths problem for the better part
of 15 15 years.
And we more or less have solved it for
like 2 billion bucks. It's roughly a
rounding error relative to everything
that we're doing.
And now we're on a trajectory to do it.
So, I think part of it is just starting.
I would love to bring everything back.
You know, I think making a marginal
improvement of even 10% dramatically
reduces the adversary's leverage.
>> Can you tell I just was reviewing my
notes ahead of our conversation today
from Graham Allison's book on on China,
Destined for War with China.
Can you give your perspective on um how
you think about China as an adversary,
as a country, as I mean, I highly
recommend the book Apple and China. I
mean, it really gives you this deep
sense of how tightly integrated our most
maybe argu- arguably our most important
company is with with manufacturing
there. It's this very strange
circumstance. I have to admit where I've
been to China. It's like it's another
place filled with human beings and
interesting things and amazing
interesting culture and all sorts of
positives. It's it's a hard thing to
wrestle with, right? That they're
adversary in the in the traditional
sense. Um but I think there are
components of that and and the nuance is
important. I'd love to just hear you
describe how you think about China as a
as a political entity, as an adversary,
as a country. Um it just feels like an
especially important thing to understand
your view on.
>> You know, when we won World War II, we
spent our own money to rebuild Germany
and Japan.
Microelectronics moved to Southeast Asia
as Apple and China documents and chip
and chip wars document uh because we
helped move it there. Yes, we got
cheaper goods in return, but the
economic development of these countries,
their flourishing in order to create
global stability was part of the
calculus.
Same thing with admitting China to the
World Trade Organization.
Uh the the problem is they cheated the
whole way through and it if you go back
to a pre-Deng Xiaoping era, they call us
the big enemy. You know, I I think part
of it is our own naivety, our own belief
that capitalism and human flourishing is
a natural consequence of prosperity. So,
okay, they're saying these things, but
as they get richer, they're going to
change their perspective on these things
and we're going to all going to find
some way of having a positive some view
on the world.
That's essentially what didn't happen.
So,
I think the challenge for us with the
CCP
is that it's not enough for China to be
prosperous, America must fail.
You know, you can just see this through
simple acts. Like if you look at um
agriculture, it is totally their
prerogative. It's a business decision
whether you want to buy American
soybeans or not or you want to buy
Brazilian soybeans. I do not begrudge
them one bit.
It's totally different thing when you're
trying to smuggle in agricultural
funguses so we can't grow soybeans. Now,
if you start going down through the
laundry list of what's actually
happening, that's that's the shape of
what's happening.
And they're very they're a formidable
adversary in the sense that, you know,
we our conception of of war
is kinetic. It's like the lone heroic
cowboy against the odds winning through
heroism. Their conception of war is
deception. It's the the general who
tricked the adversary to get into the
valley and then flooded it. You want to
win without firing a shot.
And so, a lot of the things that are
happening are below what we would
consider the threshold of conflict, but
but it absolutely is conflict. It is in
their in their system system destruction
warfare. You know, it's waging war
through all the means because they're
going to wage it where they have
symmetric asymmetric strength. And
until, you know,
the American Calvinist sensibility is
structurally positive sum. Like and
we're going to we're going to turn the
other cheek time and time again, over
and over again. There will be some line,
there will be some point at which we
just react. And when we react, the the
best quote I have from an admiral I like
is it's no longer John Boyd's OODA Loop,
observe, orient, decide, act. It's the
American OODA OODA Loop, observe, um
overreact, destroy, apologize.
What we want to do is prevent this from
happening by having enough deterrence
that we're not provoked to being in a
position where we need we we even need
to react.
>> You've mentioned that the idea of
asymmetries a few times, nuclear subs
being an example of of our last huge
asymmetries versus others.
What are the most important asymmetries
in your mind for the US and for China?
Like where where do where where do they
have an asymmetric advantage against us?
Where do we have it against them? And
what do you hope shifts in in in the
>> This is a great question. So, their
their principal asymmetric advantage is
long-term planning.
Um they actually can't pivot on a dime.
So, let's go back to Gulf War One, which
we're talking about with John Boyd. They
saw
the devastating violence we were able to
do in basically four days to the fourth
largest army in the world, and they they
said, "Okay,
we have to systematically map
all of the critical dependencies of
America's military technology and invest
against it." And they have been doing
that since '91.
Uh
and so we like the frog is kind of
boiled in some sense. And it's a little
bit of an easier game because they're
playing a home game, but that's the map
they've been on. And then it's been a
steady journey, and if you look back,
they broadcast their intent the whole
time. There's no surprises that were
there ever.
Our asymmetric advantage is that we're
crazy. The AI phenomenon was not in
their long-range plan. It wasn't in our
long-range plan, but when it happened,
we all our whole economy pivoted on it
on a dime, right? And even the Chinese
models,
those are a result of distillation. And
so our ability then to be unpredictable,
cuz we ourselves do not know what we're
going to do. That's that's our key
strength. That comes back to the
heretics. Where does that
unpredictability come from? Because it's
not our bureaucracy, our bureaucracy is
predictable, right? It's not the steady
Eddie managed decline, it's it's the
crazies.
>> How do we get more heretics in this part
of the American
story? Because there's obviously a
massive profit and I would argue status
motivator in the private sector.
All these companies that are popping up
with amazing founders, the potential
rewards are extremely obvious. The
heretics that you described at the start
of the conversation, that's definitely
not true. You mentioned, you know, dying
penniless or whatever. How do we create
the right set of incentives for more of
our most talented people to go be
heretics in this part of the American
story right now?
>> There's two incentives. One is just like
recognition
that we need the heretics. I think Hyman
Rickover enjoyed his celebrity for a big
period of time and just being known as
the guy who did this is itself a sort of
reward. Then the second part of this is
is definitely financial. Like one of the
arguments I've been making is the
cynical view of of defense defense
industrial complex in particular is
something like these are greedy
warmongers. Well, they picked the wrong
industry then cuz like on the greedy
side you should be in tech, you should
be in some other business. These are
these are crappy businesses, you know,
they have like 9% operating margins or
something. It's They're not they're
they're valued like less than two times
revenue. So we actually need to make our
primes more valuable and that would help
us continue to attract the heretics. How
do you make the primes more valuable?
The facile critique of the primes is
somehow they're the problem.
The system's the problem. The primes are
just downstream of the consequence of
the incentives the government gives and
I think the the worst incentive is
cost-plus contracting. Your upside is is
capitated, you're not supposed to take
any risk, the government basically pays
for your R&D so you have no skin in the
game. And yeah, you're still able to
make a small number of exquisite things,
but that system is anti-heresy. Like you
can only do the conventional thing that
the government's agreeing that you
should do. You think about the Higgins
boat, Andrew Higgins built that boat on
his own. There was no spec In In that's
why the Navy kept rejecting it. It
wasn't Navy's idea. But then 92% of all
boats in World War II are the Higgins
boat. The Heresy is the boat that won
the war. You know, how do you create an
economic incentive where that's the
case? And I think companies like Anduril
are pioneering that on the hardware side
where it's like, "Hey, I'm building a
product. These are my specs. These are
my opinions. I'm absorbing the risk. You
should buy it if you like it or not."
Part of the reason for profound optimism
right now is is like
I would not have have started all this
advocacy if I thought I was just
screaming into the wind. It's like
having done this for 20 years for the
for the first
solid 10 years we were alone in the
darkness. It was like SpaceX on the
launch side and us.
And then if you look at the present
moment, there are now hundreds of
founders who are building in the
national interest with a US capital
stack, one of our other advantages, of
over a hundred billion dollars invested
in the projects that they're doing that
are actually changing how the department
thinks about the future. Like this is
the window and the moment for this stuff
to happen. I increasingly in
conversations that I have in in in the
in the Pentagon, I hear some of these
new entrants are talked about as plan A.
It's not plan B. It's not, "Hey, we'll
see. Maybe this will work in the
future." It's like, "No, no. This is the
plan and we'll we'll have to have
backups if that doesn't work." That is
unrecognizable from the world I started
in 2006.
>> If you were the president for a day
tomorrow, what would be your executive
orders? Like what what would be the
things that you think could carry the
most freight to create some of the
change that that you want to see?
>> I have narrow ideas. Like this is a
narrow idea, but I would try to blow it
up. Okay, you want to bring
pharmaceutical production back to the
US?
If you try to do that for generics, the
business case will never work. It's it's
too hard. It's too much of a subsidy. Um
but what you really want is you want to
redevelop a skilled workforce that
understands how to make drugs again. And
you want the production capacity that in
a time of crisis you could go from, say,
making branded drugs to generics. So,
why don't we manipulate patent length
and say, "Look, drug companies, if you
make your worldwide supply of your
branded drugs here in the US, I will
extend your patent length such that you
recover two extra capex investment to go
do that. That's a simple business case
that every pharma company would
underwrite in a heartbeat and it
provides the catalyst to go generate
that capacity. I think there are a lot
of things in the American economy that
look like that. If you go back to the
story I was saying between prosperity
and freedom that, you know, Chrysler
built minivans and missiles and Ford
built satellites until 1990, General
Mills, Kodak, like you just go down the
list that the entire economy looked like
that.
I think it's a consequence of being the
really the sole superpower and
the Pentagon, the old Pentagon in
particular, being the last bastion of
communism except for Cuba. Like like
every country gave up on communism
including Russia and China except for
Cuba and Department of Defense.
That made it both a bad business and
then seemingly no threat so you could
just be a prosperity company. You'd be a
single purpose company that just cared
about being a company.
I'm not sure that's actually like a
stable or healthy society or
civilization that we have to recognize
that
we have obligations across freedom and
prosperity.
>> You mentioned that the notion that we
are crazy and can pivot and attack
opportunity is an amazing part of the US
culture. What do you think are what's
the other end of that other side of that
coin? What are the negative aspects of
US culture in your view? And I'm going
to ask the same question zoomed in on
Palantir specifically of how to
cultivate the culture that you want.
Palantir seems to have an incredibly
distinctive culture.
Um, I'm going to ask about Sean Bombs
and and things like this inside the
inside the company. But first at the at
the US level,
what are things that you wish were
different here about our culture?
>> Some problems require sustained effort,
right? So if you can pivot really
quickly, maybe you pivot it to solving
the problem, but that means you can
pivot away from solving the problem and
and get distracted and and and lose
sight of what you're trying to
accomplish here.
Um, so that it's like a feature bug, you
know, it's it's not an unequivocal
feature, but if you're if you're in a
competition, you want to play to your
strengths and that usually involves
things that the adversary is unable to
do. You know, it helps that we kind of
the nature of populating the US was that
all the heretics from the old world came
here, right?
So, we have an unfair advantage on that.
And then, in terms of maintaining a
culture,
the critical lesson I've learned over
and over again is like the entropy of
the universe is against you. Like, if
you don't invest in your culture every
single day, you will lose it. There's
nothing about culture that is
self-sustaining. That's as true for
America, the country, as it is for your
company.
And then, the best cultures are really
almost cult-like. You know,
your culture is highly differentiated.
It should actually kind of be hard for
someone to inorganically insert into
your culture, otherwise it's not a very
differentiated culture whatsoever. That
requires flag-bearers. It requires
people who are true believers, you know,
you need to So, it starts with the
recruiting. Like, not not even not every
human has a disposition that they want
to be part of a cult, essentially. Some
of them are just structurally
mercenaries and they're evaluating
everything in life really through the
lens of what's my next job. And you you
want to try to
build your company with people who
really think of the present job as the
calling.
And
that engenders the primacy of winning.
Like, they're always thinking about how
to win today because that's the whole
game. If you win today, you have the
right to win tomorrow.
Rather than, you know, the other side of
that is getting lost in what I wish the
world could be this. I wish the company
could be this way or that way or
something,
which is unmoored. It's an aesthetic of
how you wish the world to work rather
than
both how the world does work and what is
required to win today.
>> In a company like Palantir, what do you
personally wrestle with the most? Like,
what are the tradeoffs that I'm always
fascinated by tradeoffs. It just seems
like so much so much of what happens
hinges on a couple key choices. Can't do
everything for everyone.
What do you personally wrestle with the
most?
>> The most important decisions from my
seat is really what projects are worth
outsized investment that we think are
going to define the future of, you know,
what our customers need
and therefore the future of the business
over the next 5 years.
Um and so then how do you get the right
talent on those projects? How do you
discover what those projects are? I like
to think about it it's like my backlog
is something I re-prioritize dynamically
relative to reality. So like yeah,
here's my road map. Here's all the
things I want.
It's like a approximation at a point in
time of what I'm what I
what I think are the most valuable
things to build. The second some new
data comes in, I'm going to rip that up
and re-prioritize it. Having a culture
that lets you do that cuz that is really
[__] painful. Like people don't like
it, their world is shaken up, it
generates a lot of chaos, but it's the
right thing to do. And so then managing
that so that your culture enables you to
do that and that the conviction of what
that the cost of doing it is worth it
because the return is so outsized,
that's like the whole business.
>> I'm extremely sympathetic to that point
of view of
changing plans very quickly.
I've also experienced the whiplash that
it creates in a business. How would you
coach someone trying that believes this
but understands it's really hard on a
business if you're constantly changing
your mind and pivoting your resources
around? What have you learned about like
the ways to talk about that with your
team, of implementing it, you know, of
communicating around it? I'm I'm curious
how you do it.
>> There there are always degrees of these
things, but to to the the first order
issue I'd say
um is it hard because you want to exist
in a business that isn't painful. You
know, there's a great Greg LeMond quote
who's a world championship cyclist and
someone was asking him about a
championship performance and he kind of
almost looked incredulous and he was
like,
"You know it doesn't get easier, right?
You just go faster."
Uh and so what do you think a
championship performance feels like? It
feels shitty. It's really painful. It's
really hard. And your ability to win is
basically can you survive more pain than
your competitors can?
Uh and so then there's this weird
phenomenon where if you're doing
something world-class,
it's really painful.
Also, if you're totally failing, it's
really painful. So then having some
discrimination to know which of these
two worlds am I in? And and the worst
world to kind of be in is where you have
no signal. It's like you're just
plotting along, but it's managed decline
is really what's happening.
So then is the pain we're experiencing
resulting is it generating results or
not? And orienting people to that. The
other part I'd say is you can't move the
whole company at once. Even a company as
small as ours is only 4,500 people.
Every change is itself a mini insurgency
inside the company. Now I would think
about it like you're campaigning, and
right? It's like who are the people who
already believe what you're saying? How
do you add incremental weight behind
what they're doing? How do you help them
succeed more? Are you trying to generate
momentum? Are you trying to deal with
the drag of bringing everyone along? And
my experience has been momentum is the
thing that aligns the whole company. And
so you should be waking up every day in
the in the midst of these pivots just
working on momentum. People will catch
up.
>> What are your favorite ways to do that?
Like to create Is it make kind of a
communication question?
Palantir gets so much attention now from
public markets and everywhere. It's like
an It's one of these exciting places. So
there's more scrutiny on the company,
its choices, what it does. You don't get
to operate in obscurity like you did in
the first, you know, the first batch of
time.
What are your favorite methods for that
internally or tactically?
>> Celebrating the heretics, celebrating
the successes, creating venues where
everyone has some ability
to revolt. Every employee's first AMA
with me I end it by telling them
to tell me to [__] off to my face. It's
a way of, you know, it's very
uncomfortable for them actually. They're
almost not sure if this is like I'm like
entrapping them in into something that's
going to get them in trouble. But, you
know, how can you say you have a flat
culture if you can't tell the boss to
[__] off? It's like a small gesture, but
it's trying to set the conditions to
understand like, "Hey, we are a company
that's committed to taking the very best
idea regardless of where it comes from."
Um and then putting all of our wood
behind those arrows. And it's a it it
And most of those ideas are usually some
variants from what we're currently
doing. Otherwise, it'd already be the
current best idea. So, we've
institutionalized like you you got to be
careful how much you institutionalize
but at minimally two times a year
we have these these weeks of revolt
where people are allowed to go build
whatever they want. We're almost I like
want the people to have a chip on their
shoulder. Like the whole point is to
prove that we've been [__] up and
doing it wrong and you know inspire us
with the thing that you've built. And
then if you have a culture that is just
profoundly truth-seeking and it's like
the truth is so charismatic that like
now that I've seen it, I can't unsee it.
Like this is obviously the right answer,
let's go. It's not as hard as it may
sound to get to to move and pivot on
these things.
>> The AI time is so remarkable. We all
have to deal with this new thing at the
same time. It's uh probably like any
crisis, there's both opportunity and
danger bundled in the coming of AI for
Palantir, too.
How do you receive this new technology
and make sure that you get better
because of it and don't get disrupted
because of it? Like you were a disruptor
with this enterprise ontology concept,
you know, killing the old like rigid
database systems. You had an innovation.
Now, like if I wanted to create a
Palantir competitor, it would be much
easier just by virtue of the technology
that's available.
>> only way you can do that is by
disrupting yourself. So, to the point of
institutionalizing rebellion and holding
that up, it's like it is the perpetual
motor of self-disruption. I think about
it is like the most valuable thing is
not to defend a moat or something, but
it's to go charge after the new
opportunity.
Um and one of the things I think is
unique about AI is how much it plays to
the beginner's mind. Obviously, the
first adopters of AI for us were the
youngest hires. And um to the point of
generating momentum, I didn't really
bother with the people who were kind of
cynical or
dismissive of it. I let the young people
generate just overwhelming productivity
that almost in some sense humiliated or
inspired other people to get on board.
Uh and and there's just a similar
phenomenon. There was like a weird,
almost like out-of-body experience to
someone who's been there 20 years, or
someone who had been at Palantir 3 years
is like, "You know what? The best people
are doing this are really the young
people." By which he meant people who'd
been there like 3 months, you know, and
that recognition of of Okay, so here we
have someone who's not a gatekeeper.
He's actually trying to find the
insurgents and empower them and place
them in places where they can go forth
and and do better [__] and we can all
learn together by doing that. It's been
actually really fun with the rate of
transformation for AI and what it's
really enabled to be possible.
>> Everyone's trying to answer this
question of like, "Okay, we have AI,
like who's going to Where's going to the
value going to get captured in the in
the whole like stack or chain or however
you want to think about it?"
What's your answer to that question?
>> We think that the value is going to
accrue at the at the chips layer and at
at the ontology layer. If you kind of
squint at the stack, I'll skip over some
parts of this, but you have chips, you
have the model providers, you have AI
infrastructure, which is where we think
the ontology sits,
and then you have AI applications. And
what you kind of observe out there is
the model companies have to run up the
stack away from just providing a pure
model, because the model is
commoditized. It's really everything
they build around the model that is a
solution that they're going to try to
build value off of.
When you look at the AI pure play
applications, they're running down. As
they start to scale their businesses,
have to deal with more customers, more
of their customers' data, they're
reinventing the AI infrastructure,
essentially AIP, from first principles,
recognizing why they need it. Now, of
course,
through some divine intervention, we've
built this platform over the last 20
years, and you can say arguably the the
meat of it since 2015 with Foundry
leading to AIP,
that gives us a huge head start on these
things. And even if these models help
you code faster, there's there's there's
the code and there's the the secrets
that actually is
behind why we built the code. So, where
are we going to be in 2 years? Where are
we going to be in 2 years and after
that? So, I I think that's We feel like
we're in a very good position there and
that's expressed by like the way we
measure this is
how quickly can I deliver value for my
customers? You know, how quickly can I
deliver enterprise autonomy or
fundamentally change my customers'
businesses? And not only has that number
been awesome, like I'd say 2 years ago
we could do that inside of 8 weeks. Now,
it feels like a week, you know, so like
that that rate is compounding
dramatically.
>> One thing I'm really fascinated about
you is for so long you were sort of like
an if you know, you know guy, very much
behind the scenes, you know, if you
asked around like the person or one of
the key people making this business
work, the forward deployed thing, you
know, lots of examples. And it seems
like you've chosen to be a everybody
knows guy. What is behind that choice?
Like why why make that shift?
>> I'd say I'm a bit reluctant about the
shift, but
I
can't look my kids in the eye and not
say that I'm ringing the bell that we're
in an undeclared state of emergency.
That really the first major public thing
I put out there was the 18 theses, which
is to say like we're in emergency, we've
lost deterrence.
I've been doing this for roughly 19
years at that point. Here's my
diagnostic of what's wrong. The shot
clock is ticking. Like we've got to
coalesce around this problem. Now, on a
note of profound optimism, I've seen
more change in the Department of War in
the last year than the prior 19 years
and I think there to the point of
Americans do the right thing having
exhausted all the other options, like we
are definitely in the place where we are
starting to do the right things and the
first derivative and even the second
derivative is positive, going faster and
faster here.
>> How would you sum up the 18 theses?
I know we've talked about lots of
component parts of it already. Is there
anything from that that was your first
kind of big public thing that we haven't
talked about that you think is
important?
>> But if I was to synthesize it is we've
lost deterrence. The reason this is not
going to go the way World War II did is
we don't have the industrial base we had
in World War II.
We have to recognize what are our unique
American strengths. The person is the
program. Like don't forget that Edward
Hall built the Minuteman and Shriver was
the Air Force general that oversaw our
ICBMs and that we call it the Apollo
program, but it was actually Gene
Kranz's program and the primacy of those
people and getting the right people in
those roles is determinative to the
success. It would be like thinking you
could found a company by recipe as
opposed like the company's future is
determined by the founders.
That's like almost like the congenital
limiter on what is actually possible.
And of all cultures we should understand
that. And then downstream of that we
should recognize that there is no
process out of this. The reason we're
screwed right now is we we prayed at the
altar of process. We thought if we
follow this requirements process or we
do this thing if we just let the
bureaucracy work or lead to a good
result. And the only thing that leads to
is
decline.
And that if you look at all the great
military innovations through history
like Churchill built the tank as the
head of the Royal Navy because the army,
the British army wasn't smart enough to
realize that horses were not going to
win the next war. So he called it a land
ship because he could only build ships.
So it was a land ship. You know, but
that's not a one-off. Like literally
every major military innovation
including the Sidewinder missile which
was like a rogue project that some guy
kind of built with lighters with a new
sort of seeker that totally humiliated
the Air Force's missile in Vietnam and
became now we think of it as the
standard. You know, when Bill Perry
became the the Assistant Secretary of
Defense, he was staring down this thing.
It's like, "Hey, I can either try to fix
the system and lose implied
or I can take the two things I really
care about and make sure they work GPS
and stealth. At every crossroads, it's
the person who just wants to engage with
the system
we lose. And the person who's willing to
just put it all on the line to make it
work. And it was kind of a call to like
if you're a latent heretic in the
department, if you're a latent heretic
in defense tech, this is the moment to
express your heresy.
>> Is there anything about your worldview,
Palantir, etc. that you think is would
be surprising to an outsider that we
haven't talked about?
>> First of all, we don't really think of
ourselves a defense company. Like we're
a software company.
I think the fact that like half of our
business is in government, 2/3 of that
half is in defense, is actually more
normal to historical kind of pattern
that we've talked about here than the
present. Um but the part that I think a
lot of outsiders misunderstand is they
somehow think we're either in the
business of collecting data or doing
surveillance. And that is is probably
the part that's like least well
understood about what we're doing. And I
think
the part I I So you you're we're
engaging with the problems as they
exist. And so you could say, "What is
the problem that exists?" The core
problem that we're set up to solve is
the legitimacy of our institutions. Why
do doors fall off planes? Why does it
seem like our basic government services
don't work?
If you don't address those problems, if
you don't build that state capacity,
private sector, public sector, if you
don't help these institutions get
better,
it breeds nihilism. It breeds this sense
that we should just burn it all to the
ground. There's nothing worth investing
in. And that doesn't actually work. You
know, it's just strictly a worse world.
But that sort of energy is what you're
fighting against. Our diagnosis of this
problem, if you thought about these
institutions,
let's give the C-suite,
government or private sector, the
benefit of the doubt. They have the
steering wheel, and they're diligently
trying to steer the steering wheel.
What they don't understand is it's a
Jungle Cruise prop from Disneyland. Like
it's not connected to anything. And then
you have the people down below who are
kind of looking up and saying, "How
could my leaders be so dumb?" You You
that is where that neologism starts. And
so the the
What is the point of this operating
system? Why are we trying to make these
decisions better? We're trying to create
something that's more responsive for the
people who are leading these
institutions and the people who do the
work. And so much of the 20th century
has been this wild managerial revolution
that has concentrated power away from
both these ends to an amorphous middle
blob. That's where all the disconnection
happens in the steering wheel. So,
reasserting that in a way that like our
institutions work for the people that
they're designed to serve and that our
companies are actually the best in the
world and functioning and competitive.
That's That's how you underwrite freedom
and prosperity.
>> This idea of like you have all this
data, you're doing surveillance through
this like panopticon and you know, in in
America or something. Does that weigh on
you? Does it weigh on you that like you
are sort of cast as like uh
as like an easy enemy or villain
in in in certain people's stories?
>> It used to weigh on me. Part of it is
like okay, you've been doing it for 20
years. Like okay, how long can this
stuff keep weighing on you? But I I
think it would be fair to say it weighs
on every new employee when they come in.
There's some journey of dealing with
this. But that's I think it's also the
the lot of the man in the arena.
Like
John We can end with John Boyd. Like to
do or to be. Are you trying to be
someone or you trying to do something?
You know? We're trying to do something.
>> That was one of my favorite lines from
that book. Expand on that one bit more.
>> So, John Boyd's advice to to other
officers, other uniform service members
always like, look, you can either be
somebody or you can do something. But
you can't really have both. And if
you're going to be somebody, you got to
play this game and it's all kind of
theater, but you're going to get
promoted and you're going to get the
accolades and you're going to get the
rewards of doing that and you're going
to feel good about yourself. Or you can
actually do something and it's going to
feel really shitty and no one's going to
appreciate it, but you're going to have
the intrinsic reward of knowing that you
did something.
>> You mentioned your dad earlier in the
conversation. There's this visual story
where I think he's held up at gunpoint
or something early in his life. Went
through a lot. I'm curious
for you to reflect on the nature of
fatherhood in this whole story. It seems
like such a key your relationship with
your dad seems like such a key part of
your story from the outside and you're a
dad yourself. Would you be willing to
just like reflect on that a little bit?
>> I mean, it would be hard to overstate
the impact that dad and his example had
on me.
Um
you had such a selfless man who just
gave everything to his family. Could
could weather any humiliation in service
of his children and his wife. And um
I think when you're a kid you don't you
like you you you learn this stuff
subconsciously and you're like any
normal kid,
you know,
this thing dad did is annoying or you
don't you don't fully appreciate it, but
it's like the culmination of all these
events over time actually profoundly
shape who you are and
I hope I can set an example that
inspires my kids to do the same sort of
thing. And I think a lot of fatherhood
is is is being a man that inspires your
family
to be better.
>> When I do these my closing question is
the same for everybody. What is the
kindest thing that anyone's ever done
for you?
>> The greatest thing which is covered in
in the story is uh
Miss Ethel Danhoff was the head of
admissions for this private school in
Orlando. Uh and you know, my my dad took
me for a tour of the school having
learned that it's the best school and
like that was the that was the other
fixation my dad has that education was
how you were going to achieve some
prosperity. It's like I'm going to give
my son every opportunity I possibly can.
Turns out we'd missed the admission
window by a mile and everything was kind
of done and you know, I I was actually
very reluctant to go even on this trip
and see the school. I was very happy
with the school I was at and but I was
when I saw the science facilities there,
I was like I need to go here. I need to
learn this stuff. This is inspiring.
And you know, so now I was all spun up
and excited and of course I'm learning,
hey, you totally screwed this up and
you'll have to wait a year. And Ms.
Danhoff, I no data. Like, you know, it's
not like I had some standardized test
scores or something. She's like, "Give
this kid the admission test. Just do
it." And maybe she had a modicum of data
after that test, but we were a family
that needed financial aid. So, it's
like, here it is. Like, let's admit a
kid that we're going to have to
subsidize to come here. And that opened
the entire future. And I think, you
know, if you look later in life, okay,
maybe maybe people have cynical reasons
to help you. You're further along. They
they think there might be something in
it. It's like, there's nothing in it for
her. It's just a profound act of
kindness that fundamentally changed my
life.
>> Great place to close, John. Thanks for
your time.
>> Thank you.
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back,
using AI to automate 85% of expense
reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my business does, too. To
see what happens when you eliminate the
busy work, check out ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm. OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic,
Perplexity, and Vercel all have
something in common. They all use
WorkOS. And here's why. To achieve
enterprise adoption at scale, you have
to deliver on core capabilities like
SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs. That's
where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. Every investor should know
about Rogo because Rogo AI's platform is
not just another generic chatbot.
Instead, it was designed to support how
Wall Street bankers and investors
actually work, from sourcing, diligence,
and modeling to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Rogo.
First, it connects directly to your
systems so it can work with your actual
data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end-to-end and produces
real outputs the way the best people do,
auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that Rogo is
built by finance professionals for
finance professionals, and it's already
being adopted by some of the most
demanding institutions in the world. To
learn more, visit rogo.ai/invest.